Andrew how excited are you I'm so
excited in fact we're so excited we're
here at the LA film festival premiere at
Petra amadou far as new movie I'm so
excited now this is the first kind of
broad comedy is made in some time in
those 20 years really the last one was a
woman on the verge of a nervous
breakdown ladies and he's been doing
kind of serious melodrama since then and
really nothing has been his broad or
slapstick it's really at first in terms
of collapse I'd form yeah so we're
really curious to see if it kind of
translates to American audiences we know
that it killed in Spain yes yes and he's
been quoted as saying it's the most
political and the most local and by
local we just meet Spanish most local
film he's done so that's really going to
be and what you were saying interesting
to see if that does translate for us
it's the first time movie clip systems
he felt like this
so we better not screw it up I'm getting
all nervous Ryan's playing Tetris I'm
not playing Tetris so taking footage and
I'm researching over there is Delta are
completely bypassing the red carpet to
go talk to his fans now that it's a
class act the film is about a four mates
that work in this very popular as sex
motel in Santiago and it's the girls
that it's mostly that they reflect about
loving these non lovable environment at
the LA Film Festival there's a wide
variety of films what films are you
looking forward to here we are hoping to
see many documentaries yes yes this the
act of killing I heard it was very good
there's this island Berlin a fresca some
question and there's rain about the to
belly dance that we met here in the
festival that we're very excited to see
as well so what brings you to Los
Angeles Film Festival what brings me is
a documentary called lynn foxx one-man
band you know this i'm guessing by your
face I saw this movie yeah I saw this
movie yeah i'm gonna review it and he's
very positive believe me i was i was
enchanted with this documentary you know
as sorry as i fixed my bra strap you
know you know I you're one of maybe 14
people have seen it lynn foxx is an
absolute iconoclast he is an incredibly
gifted painter and
it's an incredibly gifted musician
having built that a giant one man band
machine that he plays and performs on
which he doesn't as well anybody else no
one's allowed to touch it except for him
that's right so you that I as I recall
it spreads from his life from like 7277
you must have been filming this for a
long time we did follow Lin for seven
years from age 7277 not full time we
both have the other jobs but it was
really satisfying because the story
evolved and unfolded to us you know
little things like it I spent eight
years on one painting then he spent 21
years on another painting these things
slowly were revealed to us while we were
wondering why he wasn't getting his due
because he was making other work but the
world just wasn't quite attuned to Lin
fouled and one thing I found that it was
really brilliant the film is how the
gallery openings are active Zach breaks
throughout the film and they're received
all differently from the our community
and from winning his family and
everything like that so I'm wondering
did you know that that was going to be
the way you're going to structure the
documentary you know it's so interesting
we started just filming and finishing
that giant painting the lost frontier
which is now owned by the hammer museum
but took years to find a home we started
filming him we were making a short film
that was going to play with it when he
finished it and just run on a loop in
the gallery in New York and then it
eventually ran on a loop in a gallery in
LA as it tried to find a home that's
what we thought we were doing so we
finished only we filmed him for a couple
months as the countdown happened and
then I I said you know to my partner
Chris maybe we should go to New York
well Chris had to work because he went
to production sounds
and I was in between jobs so I said look
all scraped together the money will
follow into New York it'll be huge you
know like we should see him like you
know getting all these alkaloids and New
York isn't shown in New York for 15
years it'll be great so we go there and
I hire camera person and I figure how to
do the sound and no one shows up for his
show so we came back and thought okay
there's a bigger story here than we
realize this is a lot more we need to do
some exploring right and he's so
unhinged and in times neurotic like many
artists are and it's once he kind of
says you don't feel me don't do show me
don't do this was there a lot that you
had to hold back as it seems completely
unedited it just seemed like he was
pouring his heart out oh good that is
actually the reality he is uncensored he
when he the few times he said I don't
want to talk he told us or if we asked a
question that he didn't like he told us
but it was rare over the seven years
that we followed on her image we did a
really wonderful job you should be very
proud of that film Andrew yes it was a
very fast I went to art school so i was
just all about it it was very much like
a portrait of artists that you don't see
in many pounds and i know the answer
because they don't want to show that i
imagine well there's there's the other
side of it they're very successful
artists is so an interesting story
that's sure that's true that's true
that's great so we knew we had an
interesting story because he's be
incredibly talented and unsung and there
in that speaks for so many people not
just artists filmmakers musicians I just
saw that incredible documentary 20 feet
from stardom all right back up singers
you know any one of them could have been
a superstar but they weren't yeah and
that's what the film explorers and I
just think that's so important for all
of us to see films while we have
whatever our passion is and we work at
it and it's like it's okay it doesn't
matter maybe we'll be discovered maybe
we won't but the important thing is that
we make the work exactly and you really
did a great service for him you should
be very proud thank you very much for
the film they
you very much for being one of four
people missing it oh they'll be more
they'll be more free I look forward to
your review you directed a film called
codes black I'm all right you're right
here come it was a little bit about it
yeah code black the feature documentary
that I directed as a training position
there it sort of spans the four years
that I was there and follow sort of my
stuff my colleagues experiences and
coming in very naive and wide-eyed and
being like yeah we're gonna say some
people's lies guys gonna be like real
doctors and then realizing that health
care is really complicated and that in
fact as a doctor and as a patient you
know we both want the same thing we want
to be in the same room together we just
want to like make it work and the system
in a lot of ways doesn't allow us to do
that and this is the one exception in LA
where we fight for that we're at a
County Hospital you don't care about
bills we don't care about what you make
I mean we're trying to take care of
people who don't have insurance or have
crappy insurance that will never be seen
as profitable by most of the medical
establishments so at what point did you
decide I'm gonna put on a filmmaker
lines I'm going to tell this story yeah
it was pointed back home today um I
think when I come from another medical
school at his university of pittsburgh
and when I came out here to sort of
witnessed this hospital and train here
it only took the lily the first day I
was here and one night I saw more trauma
and more patience than i had seen in a
week in another cut and another like
private hospital and I want no I don't
think Americans understand this is sort
of what's going on here this is sort of
the front lines of the safety net and
it's an incredible yeah has there been
any progress since the film any
reception that maybe you think could
lead to a bigger discussion about how
sorry um what we'll see I mean I
personally I think Obamacare is is in
the is in this this step in the right
direction but i think my fear about it
is that people like sort of combine
politics and how they feel about the
political climate and they totally
forget about what the fact what it's
like to be sick and the reality is if
you talk to anybody who's just really
right now tonight needs medical care you
don't want to think about politics you
want to think about insurance you want
to call it 800 number on your insurance
card and deal with all that crap and
find a specialist and go through all
those forms heck no man you want relief
you want a doctor and that's that you
want the simplicity of that relationship
and interestingly that's what doctors
want to at least my generation of Doc's
one could argue that maybe
critical distance would be beneficial
for this girl I would say hmm actually
what we're gonna do is we're going to
bring you into an entirely new
perspective we're going to show you
medicine from basically not just a
fly-on-the-wall documentary crew but
we're gonna make you one of us we're
gonna make you one of our team members
we're going to bring you into the doctor
i'm going to show you what it's like to
be in that position and all the fear and
all the anxiety that comes with being a
young doctor when you're like oh my god
this is gunshot wounds coming at me I
got to do that I got to do this that can
be me gonna fix this you know yes movie
clips hey are you great how are you guys
doing well so how excited are you for
I'm so exact we are so excited come on
it's pedro almodovar III couldn't have
been more thrilled i heard he was
opening to the hypo possible and what
was your relationship like with him in
his work was speaking personally your
FileMaker I love three years and years I
mean you know he's one of those he has
such a distinct unique vision his films
when you watch his films you know that
it's buy him a little bit of a return to
some of his earlier stuff like remember
I was great seeing certain taking turns
well I'll just said you know we just got
back from a retreat up at Skywalker
Ranch when we take all of the directors
and have them sort of showing at the
festival f4 kind of a two-day hangout
where they can all meet each other and
get to know each other and then when
they come here down in Los Angeles they
actually have begun diploma or form a
community and and you know to kind of
see that you know begin to blossom here
in this city of angels is a real treat
because the filmmakers trying to go to
each other's films and they're really
supportive throughout you know the 10
days of the festival so I'm really
excited to see them interact with each
other and experienced each other's don't
you directing a new black I saw the film
it's really powerful
do you want to talk about what makes you
want to make this fell short in the area
that you made it definitely so I i
started conceiving as a film in the
election of barack obama 2008 and when
you're actually barack obama was elected
it and african eric community sort of
was playing for the loss of marriage
equality with the passage of proposition
8 I was in California at the time and
you know it just I wanted to look at why
these two communities were being
constantly pitted against each other
what was what that was about and so that
was the beginning of the that was the
genesis of the idea and I also had a
feeling that this was an issue that was
going to continue that was going to you
know keep being in the political scene
because of propositions and because of
our political system so that's where it
started in it my first I started seeing
in 2010 and what's been really amazing
for me is if filmmakers I've able to i
was able to document really history
being made on this issues you really
explore their lives in such a full way
i'm wondering how you kind of sought out
who to follow in the story and show you
found them yeah you know you as it had
as it happens in document film and in my
experience one character will often lead
me to another so initially my one of my
main characters i found her just sorted
through like gumshoe reporting and
research and she was someone who had
come from the civil rights community and
acp and people from american way and now
it shows it to work on the issue of gay
rights in the black community so i
thought she'd be very interesting to
look at her work at what she was doing
and then maryland became a ballot
initiative started bubbling up last
spring las last summer and so i started
documenting the activists who were
working on that and also to my gospel
singer character is someone that I found
who i thought was really emblematic of
what was going on in
Church and how we were casting out
people in the church you know because of
sexuality so what do you hope people
take away from this film they when they
see it well I think that I hope people
take away the sort of inspiration that
we are you know even if you disagree
with the you know with marriage equality
particularly that we as a nation are
moving towards greater fairness and
equality for all and it's always a
struggle it's always something that is
contested and that people you know I
mean we can look at our history and
civil rights box of rights of women you
know and the gay rights movement is a
part of that that trajectory so I hope
that it will spark more dialogue in the
issue I hope that it will you know for
the LGBT community really begin or
continue to look around race and
sexuality which is something that
they'll LGBT domina LGBT community has
not historically done and I hope will
continue spark conversation like within
families within churches within
communities well congratulations on the
film that's really very powerful thank
you hey how are you now good how you
doing great great good to see it it's
YouTube what are you excited about this
year's LA Film Fest the diversity of
films that I'm hopefully gonna get to
see starting with this one so yeah it's
been a lot of fun to be able to do
comedy you know through growlings go
through math TV it's only helped you
know I feel I have a pretty diverse
background so and then Hunger Games is
pretty dark and serious but I got to do
a really fun character and I think I can
only attribute that to probably my
background and Groundlings and comedy
absolutely and of course with the next
film you about Francis Lawrence
directing yeah he's up doing the rest of
the Mockingjay right right right how's
that going for his their difference in
tone so far I have no idea because I I
haven't heard the official word this
farce whether I'm in it or not i think i
am on both women are you okay driving
tovar fan I am a Pedro mold apart
yeah I loved I'm hoping to see him I
think he's catching up to me so I'm
gonna move slowly it's essentially a
road movie a very funny road movie it's
very personal it it's sprung out of us
getting a bunch of wedding announcements
from friends of ours and being like wait
a minute these guys are getting married
like you can just get married guys real
marriage police yeah unless you're
unless you're the same gender in which
case that is illegal which is not good
yeah and that said that a lot of it with
everything was pretty much scripted it
was I which feels so it's almost
astounded because it's so
improvisational looking thank you yeah
um yeah that's what we wanted to do we
wanted everything is sound natural but
also have a tight script going in so we
were shooting in the middle of the
desert and didn't want too many
surprises so our writing process was
really collaborative you can so we
outlined the movie and then we went
through with our actors and they
improvised pretty much most the key
scenes then we sort of took notes during
the improv and wrote in all their great
ideas into the dialogue so it feels very
add livi but it's because they wrote the
lines themselves in advance every now
and then Matt or Noel will bake you know
I just I just really liked that line the
way I'm like that's cuz you wrote it man
absolutely well you're at the LA Film
Festival now what's this experience been
like so far it's been amazing been
awesome it's been so awesome word I I
think we're just as surprised as you are
that there's a romantic comedy at a film
festival and and we're glad that they
embrace that and had us here so but
they're awesome yes you take us on a
retreat up to Skywalker Ranch we met our
co-directors yeah and and they're all
really great that's awesome guys well
congratulations on the film hey very
good teacher for you guys yeah thanks
really appreciate you coming together
terada and Olivia so you guys directed a
documentary lane can you tell us a
little bit about it yeah it's a
documentary rain it's about the
classically trained ballet dancers of
the Paris Opera and it's actually about
a meeting of two worlds of dance because
they're these dances are trying to cope
with a core more contemporary geography
of the Belgian choreographer on today's
on the caves maggot and it's about the
meeting of these two worlds about this
classically trained dancers in this
institute and how they relate with this
more modern material and obviously
opened up a lot of doors for you this
your first time in Los Angeles first
time on the red carpet what druids this
material to make a film lab well we've
been working a lot with a choreographer
she when this project came up she asked
us to she wanted two races of this
process so yes she has to make a
documentary and we we immediately said
yes so yeah when the experience so far
has been out in here yeah we've been
here just one day but uh yeah it's been
quite excited this is what happens when
you sneak over the red carpet
security to happen
Polliwogs is about a guy who on the
heels of the bitter breakup goes home to
Minnesota for a family reunion and while
he's there he confronts his past and
ultimately ends up finding a hope for
his future oh very cool yeah what is it
some of your cinematic influences in
telling that kind of story because it's
a very personal story yeah it's a very
personal story in terms of cinematic
influences I guess you know I've always
I've always been a fan of slow cinema
I've always been a fan of movies that
like to tell stories through through
imagery and through naturalism you know
so I mean fan of Lars von Trier you know
in his in his Dogma days i think i was i
was obsessed with that period of his you
know filmmaking career so that
definitely had a huge influence on it
but you know any pretty much any
director who likes to take their time
and he likes to sort of watch stories
unfold in sort of a fly on the wall kind
of way it's also an improvised movie we
we had a rigid story structure but all
the scenes are improvised and I dropped
the actors into the middle of my actual
family reunion and we shot with two
cameras kind of doc styles so so there
is this real this sense of realism I
think that you can only achieve by doing
something like that right that makes me
question you to bring the actors into
the post-production process when you're
cutting everything together to get their
perspective well we were even a little
more hybrid than that we have an editor
on set is cutting while we're shooting
yeah which is great you know and we and
I rehearsed with the actors for six
months leading up to the project because
i really wanted people to have their
back stories in place and be able to
just answer anything at the drop of the
hat and i'm sure they trusted you by the
time oh yeah we trusted each other and I
act in the movie too so so I was able to
kind of steer see and sometimes when I
was acting just because I knew sort of
what plot points we needed a hit in
certain in certain parts so that was
also very helpful
no actually I dare you were so close
thank you
we missed them no I literally had 20 oh
he's here he's here he looked right
action yeah he did he really did you
know what I hate his business